Reporting Dashboard alerts (#3495)
astronomer/docs: astro/reporting-dash-exports.md

---

> sidebar_label: 'Set up reporting data exports'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: 'Export reporting data'
```

title: "Export data reports and set up alerts"
id: reporting-dash-exports
description: "Export data from reporting dashboards or configure conditional exports as alerts."
---

:::warning

This feature is in [Private Preview](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/feature-previews). Please reach out to your customer success manager to enable this feature.

:::

You can export data from your reporting dashboards, either as a file download, sent to an email address, or sent to an email address on a regular schedule. The reporting dashboard also offers you the ability to set up a *reporting dashboard alert*, or a scheduled data export that occurs when the data set meets certain conditional critera.

:::info

Only users with **Organization Billing Admin** [user permissions](user-permissions.md#organization-roles) can access reporting dashboards.

:::

> Hover over the dashboard element whose data you want to export, and then expand the additional options menu to choose to either **Export** your data or **Alert when** to email your data to you when it meets your specified criteria.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an Astro administrator, you might want to export reporting data to share with other team members or to keep a record of key performance indicators. Astro supports several different methods for exporting reporting data based on how and when you want to receive the data. Specifically, you can export data:

- Manually through the Cloud UI.
- On a regular schedule.
- Whenever a certain condition is met, such as a metric reaching a specific threshold.

When you export reporting data, Astro exports the last 1.0M of data from a specific dashboard in the file format of your choice. Use this document to learn about the different ways you can trigger the export process.
```
Tried to add more of a general summary here.

![Expand the menu to view all options for downloading data, emailing data, scheduling a data export, and setting up a data alert.](/img/docs/dash-open-menu.png)

> ## Download data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Download reporting data
```

> In the **Export** menu, you can choose to download up to 1.0 M rows of data in a particular file format.

Reviewer: Thinking about Ask Astro usage here and also general readability - I wouldn't mind being redundant and adding the steps for accessing the dashboard to each of these topics.

> In the **Export** menu, you can choose to download up to 1.0 M rows of data in a particular file format.

Reviewer: What happens when you try to download more than 1.0 M rows of data? And is this 1.0 Megabytes or Million? Not seen this unit before

Author: This threw me back to a suppressed applied enviro class I took, capitalized `M` is short for mega/million (10^6) as [a standard unit](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metric_prefix). I wrote it long form for convenience. `Megabyte` is actually `1 million bytes`, we just never call it that conventionally.

> ## Email a data export

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Export reporting data to email
```

Reviewer: Added as a subtopic because this seems like an extension of the manual export topic.

Author: I realize that's how it seems, but they're two separate functions and flows. If I were to cluster them its. Exporting as a download is a one click process, but the email export requires a few more steps and can bump users into setting up an alert.

- Download data

- Export data in an email
|- scheduled data export in email
- Set up an alert

> Instead of downloading your data directly, you can choose to email it to a specified address by choosing **Export** > **Send now**. Enter the recipient's email address and optionally edit the subject line and email body message. Then, in the **Attachments** section, select the report you want to send and file format to include it as. You can choose the from the same file types available for a one-time data download. To send more than one report, click **+ Add**.

Reviewer: Similar comment here, can we have specific numbered steps instead of a paragraph for the process of exporting? Including accessing the dashboards page to begin with

:::tip

> When you configure a data export or alert that is sent to an email address, you can choose to run the report with their level of user permissions by clicking **Run queries as recipient** in the **More options** section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to send data to a member of your team with fewer permissions on Astro, you can export the report with the recipient's level of user permissions by clicking **Run queries as recipient** in the **More options** section.
```

---
sidebar_label: 'Export reporting data'
title: "Export Astro reporting data"
id: reporting-dash-exports
description: "Export data from reporting dashboards or configure conditional exports as alerts."
---

:::info

> Organization reporting dashboards are only available at the Enterprise product tier.

Author: ```suggestion
Organization reporting dashboards are only available if you have an Enterprise product plan.
```

As an Astro administrator, you might want to export reporting data to share with other team members or to keep a record of key performance indicators. Astro supports several different methods for exporting reporting data based on how and when you want to receive the data. Specifically, you can export data:

- Manually through the Astro UI.
- On a regular schedule.
- Whenever a certain condition is met, such as a metric reaching a specific threshold.

When you export reporting data, Astro exports the last [1.0 million rows of data](https://help.sigmacomputing.com/docs/download-export-and-upload-limitations) from a specific dashboard in the file format of your choice. Use this document to learn about the different ways you can trigger the export process.

## Prerequisites

- Only users with **Organization Billing Admin** [user permissions](user-permissions.md#organization-roles) can access Organization dashboards.

## Download reporting data

> 1. To view Astro reporting dashboards, click your Workspace name in the upper left corner of the Astro UI, click **Organization Settings**, and then click **Dashboards**. You can also access this page directly at [https://cloud.astronomer.io/dashboards](https://cloud.astronomer.io/dashboards).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. To view Astro reporting dashboards, click your Organization name in the upper left corner of the Astro UI, click **Organization Settings**, and then click **Dashboards**. You can also access this page directly at [https://cloud.astronomer.io/dashboards](https://cloud.astronomer.io/dashboards).
```

need to correct in other places as well

Reviewer: Until we have a smoother process for accessing org settings, I think it's better to call out the larger, more prominent clickable object here, which in this case is the Workspace name.

> 2. Open the **Export** menu.

Reviewer 2: specify something along the lines of:  "on the graph or table of which you want to export an image or the underlying data"

> 2. Open the **Export** menu.

Author: ```suggestion
2. Open the **Export** menu on the chart or table that you want to export.
```

1. To view Astro reporting dashboards, click your Workspace name in the upper left corner of the Astro UI, click **Organization Settings**, and then click **Dashboards**. You can also access this page directly at [https://cloud.astronomer.io/dashboards](https://cloud.astronomer.io/dashboards).
2. Open the **Export** menu and then select **Send now**.

<img src={require("../static/img/docs/dash-open-menu.png").default} alt="Expand the menu to view all options for downloading data, emailing data, scheduling a data export, and setting up a data alert." style={{ width: "60%", maxWidth: "400px", height: "auto" }} />

3. Enter the recipient's email address and optionally edit the subject line and email body message.
    :::tip

    If you need to send data to a member of your team with fewer permissions on Astro, you can export the report with the recipient's level of user permissions by clicking **Run queries as recipient** in the **More options** section.

    :::
4. In the **Attachments** section, select the report you want to send and file format to include it as. You can choose from the same file types available for a one-time data download.

> 5. (Optional) To send more than one report, click **+ Add**, and then select the report you want to send and its file format.

Reviewer 2: Would also indicate that you can export the entire dashboard at once (select entire page) or even all of the dashbaords at once (select entire workbook)

When you receive a report via email, the sender appears as **Sigma Computing**. The subject line also includes the name of the dashboard element's data you exported.

![Example email alert shows the sender as Sigma with information about the report in the subject line.](/img/docs/dash-email-alert.png)

### Schedule an emailed data report

1. To view Astro reporting dashboards, click your Workspace name in the upper left corner of the Astro UI, click **Organization Settings**, and then click **Dashboards**. You can also access this page directly at [https://cloud.astronomer.io/dashboards](https://cloud.astronomer.io/dashboards).

> 2. Open the **Export** menu for the reporting element you want to schedule an email export for and select **Schedule**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Open the **Export** menu for the reporting element you want to schedule an email export for and select **Schedule exports...**.
```

<img src={require("../static/img/docs/dash-open-menu.png").default} alt="Expand the menu to view all options for downloading data, emailing data, scheduling a data export, and setting up a data alert." style={{ width: "60%", maxWidth: "400px", height: "auto" }} />

3. Enter the recipient's email address and optionally edit the subject line and email body message.

    :::tip

    If you need to send data to a member of your team with fewer permissions on Astro, you can export the report with the recipient's level of user permissions by clicking **Run queries as recipient** in the **More options** section.

    :::

> If you toggle **Condition** when setting up your schedule, it allows you to configure a conditional data export, or *reporting dashboard alert*. Instead of sending a report at a specific time interval, it sends a data report when your data meets criteria that you define.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Specify a regular **Frequency** for the export or a **Condition** for when to trigger the export. If you define both a regular frequency and a condition, the export will trigger on both schedules.
```

Reviewer: I assume this is how it works? Noticed the **Frequency** button doesn't go away when you turn on the **Condition** tab.

Author: I tried this but couldn't get it to work :/

> ## Set up a reporting dashboard alert

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create a reporting dashboard alert
```

> 1. To view Astro reporting dashboards, click your Workspace name in the upper left corner of the Astro UI, click **Organization Settings**, and then click **Dashboards**. You can also access this page directly at [https://cloud.astronomer.io/dashboards](https://cloud.astronomer.io/dashboards).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To view Astro reporting dashboards, click your Workspace name in the upper left corner of the Astro UI, click **Organization Settings**, then click **Dashboards**. You can also access this page directly at [https://cloud.astronomer.io/dashboards](https://cloud.astronomer.io/dashboards).
```

2. Open the **Export** menu for the reporting element you want to set up an alert for.

<img src={require("../static/img/docs/dash-open-menu.png").default} alt="Expand the menu to view all options for downloading data, emailing data, scheduling a data export, and setting up a data alert." style={{ width: "60%", maxWidth: "400px", height: "auto" }} />

2. Click **Alert when**, or toggle **Condition** when setting up your scheduled email data report, to define when you want the reporting dashboard to send a data report to a defined email address.

<img src={require("../static/img/docs/dash-export-alert.png").default} alt="Configure the conditions that trigger the reporting dashboard to send you a data report for a particular dashboard element." style={{ width: "60%", maxWidth: "400px", height: "auto" }} />

> Like with an emailed dashboard report, when you receive a dashboard alert in an email, the sender appears as **Sigma Computing**. The subject line also includes the name of the dashboard element's data you exported.

Reviewer: We say "Like with an emailed dashboard report", but this alert is fundamentally identical to a report export right? I think it's good to have two separate topics because there are different use cases for schedules and alerts, but we should be clear that the alert is just a conditionally scheduled report export.

Author: The report export and emailed dashboard report are identical. One is just downloaded immediately and the other is emailed to an address as an attachment.

---
sidebar_label: 'Export reporting data'

> title: "Export data reports and set up alerts"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Export Astro reporting data"
```

When you receive a report via email, the sender appears as **Sigma Computing**. The subject line also includes the name of the dashboard element's data you exported.

![Example email alert shows the sender as Sigma with information about the report in the subject line.](/img/docs/dash-email-alert.png)

### Schedule an emailed data report

1. To view Astro reporting dashboards, click your Workspace name in the upper left corner of the Astro UI, click **Organization Settings**, and then click **Dashboards**. You can also access this page directly at [https://cloud.astronomer.io/dashboards](https://cloud.astronomer.io/dashboards).
2. Open the **Export** menu for the reporting element you want to schedule an email export for and select **Schedule exports...**.

    <img src={require("../static/img/docs/dash-open-menu.png").default} alt="Expand the menu to view all options for downloading data, emailing data, scheduling a data export, and setting up a data alert." style={{ width: "60%", maxWidth: "400px", height: "auto" }} />

3. Enter the recipient's email address and optionally edit the subject line and email body message.

    :::tip

>     If you need to send data to a member of your team with fewer permissions on Astro, you can export the report with the recipient's level of user permissions by clicking **Run queries as recipient** in the **More options** section. The exported report omits all data that the team member can't access with their existing role.

Reviewer 3: This is interesting.

I think I would leave this part out because access to all the data in these reports is binary. You either have the owner role/org billing admin role ( and therefore have all access ) or you don't.

So any user will fewer permissions than you defacto doesn't have access to this data at all.

I think the tip here is almost the reverse, and I did have one private preview user mention this:

"Oh I don't want to make person A be an org billing admin, but, I can just export them a view of this data once in a while if they need it and have it emailed to them".

## Create a reporting dashboard alert

A reporting dashboard alert is an email containing a message and a data export that Astro sends when specific criteria are met in one of your reporting metrics. Use reporting dashboard alerts to quickly receive messages and data when your metrics reach a specific threshold, such as when task failures exceed a certain amount.

1. To view Astro reporting dashboards, click your Workspace name in the upper left corner of the Astro UI, click **Organization Settings**, then click **Dashboards**. You can also access this page directly at [https://cloud.astronomer.io/dashboards](https://cloud.astronomer.io/dashboards).
2. Open the **Export** menu for the reporting element you want to set up an alert for.

    <img src={require("../static/img/docs/dash-open-menu.png").default} alt="Expand the menu to view all options for downloading data, emailing data, scheduling a data export, and setting up a data alert." style={{ width: "60%", maxWidth: "400px", height: "auto" }} />

3. Click **Alert when**. In the **Condition** section that appears, define when you want the reporting dashboard to send the data report.

> <img src={require("../static/img/docs/dash-export-alert.png").default} alt="Configure the conditions that trigger the reporting dashboard to send you a data report for a particular dashboard element." style={{ width: "60%", maxWidth: "400px", height: "auto" }} />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <img src={require("../static/img/docs/dash-export-alert.png").default} alt="Configure the conditions that trigger the reporting dashboard to send you a data report for a particular dashboard element." style={{ width: "60%", maxWidth: "400px", height: "auto" }} />
```
